Project Planning takes place on Trello and on Google Drive.
Trello Link: https://trello.com/b/3KLeSRbA/cse-3902-group-project
Google Drive Link: https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/12tBD0OoxzEWtA66OV9-D1PQgMvBOxmtd

Planning was uploaded here on Thursday 2/3/22 after we emailed our planning on Tuesday 2/1/22.

Game Idea:

You play inside a forest that has been infested with a darkness or parasite that drains the inhabitants of happiness. You take it upon yourself to bring life back to the forest by finding the sacred musicians that are spread throughout the woods. 

I’m picturing a few levels/areas each with a group of musicians. Each group of musicians all play the same song, but when you find one, the song changes, adding the instrument that the found musician was playing to the track. (So the song builds as you find each musician and is complete when you finish the level).

Each level/area will have different music and art aesthetics to convey a specific tone incorporated into it. 

By finding the musicians, you are bringing happiness to the forest villagers and healing them with music. When all the musicians are found in an area, it is restored, and the player acquires an instrument as a weapon/item.

There will be enemies incorporated by means of the darkness/parasite. The weapons the player uses can be instruments that are found in the levels (as stated previously). The projectiles can look like music notes and they can perform melee attacks with the actual body of the instrument. 

The actual design of the world is very much “Zelda Lost Woods” but with twists like some of the structures can be upside down, or there can be towns with groups of people, and there are growths of the darkness/parasites everywhere. 

We can explore making all of the characters into forest sprites, anthropomorphic animals, etc. or we can do humans. 

This idea is very much inspired by the dream sequences in “Night in the Woods” if anyone has played that game. You can also look up those parts of the game on YouTube to get an idea for the vision I’m describing here (in particular how the music builds when you find each musician).

Notes:
Change darkness/parasites to a different opposing force?
The game will be a side-scroller with different levels/environments
Playable characters, other characters, and musicians are spirits?
Idea for darkness cause/origin:
There is a queen spirit that gives life to the forest when she is flourishing.
The queen spirit of the forest loved to sing, bringing life to the woods and gifting all spirits with energy. When her partner is vanquished by the evil force, she stops singing and performing music, leaving darkness--an embodiment of her grief--to take over the forest. 
Because the queen is grieving, the darkness begins to take over.
Another idea: Another group of spirits that vanquishes the queen’s partner.
The leader of another group of spirits is taking over the woods in search of a home for her people, when she and her people were banished from their previous residence for ambiguous wrong-doings. The player would find this out much later. 
You have to find some musicians before you can find others. 
Two designs for musicians for when they aren’t accessible. If the musicians are unsaturated, then you can’t “save” them yet. 
Musicians would be at a stand-still and then become animated playing their instrument
The player is working for the queen, and noticing her plight, they go to each level to bring music back and encourage her to sing.
You start out in the center of the environment with the queen. After saving all the instruments, you return to the center of the level to heal that section of the forest. 
The queen sings at the very end once you have rallied the citizens to make music

Ideas for each level: 3-4 Musicians/lvl: Acquire all instruments 

Level One: The Deep Woods
Deep within the forest, lots of trees and vines
Levers that activate pathways
Climbing trees?
Level Two: The Grotto
A grotto within the woods
Song could be slow and more serene
Platforming surrounding jumping across the water
Maybe add water mechanics
Levers and switches in a boat
Level Three: The Cliff
A cliffside, with lots of vertical movement going up and down the cliff
Platforming going upwards
Rock paths inside the cliff
Grappling hook

Instruments: :3 = needs ammo
Wooden Sword - Guitar
Sword beam - Whatever instrument is being used is more powerful and produces a sound wave
Arrows - Harp :3
Boomerang - Accordion
Bombs - Percussion/Drum :3
Blue Candle - Flute 
Blue Potion - Triangle (really cute animation of the character hitting the triangle) :3
Blue ring - Speaker/Amplifier
The following is a list of features in the first dungeon from the Legend of Zelda (plus a few extras from the overworld and second dungeon), which is the expected workload for a team of 6. Teams of larger or smaller sizes should add or remove 2-3 features per person above or below 6. You may also substitute other features from the game for ones on this list with approval from your grader.


Environment – interactive
Statues /trees/plants/rocks
Square, sometimes movable block /rocks
Walls walls of rocks/trees/forest
Locked door: Caves  
Shut door
Open door
Bombed opening
Gap tile
Stairs
Ladder tile
Brick tile
Fire
Items
Compass
Map
Key
Heart container
Triforce piece
Wooden boomerang
Bow: Harp
Heart
Rupee
Arrow - 
Bomb - Percussion/Drum
Fairy - Forest Sprites
Clock
Systems
Sound effects
Music
Collision handling: Lots of collisions!!
Game state logic (pause, Item selection) 


Player
Link - MAIN CHARACTER
Wooden Sword - Guitar
Sword beam - Whatever instrument is being used is more powerful and produces a sound wave
Arrows - Harp with music notes flinging out
Boomerang - Accordion
Bombs - Percussion/Drum
Blue Candle - Flute 
Blue Potion - Triangle (really cute animation of the character hitting the triangle :3)
Blue ring - Speaker/Amplifier
Enemies and NPCS: Concept art in progress, but they should be the same but different looks.
Bat (keese) 
Skeleton (stalfos)
Dog-like monster (goriya)
Jelly (gel-small and zol-big)
Hand (wall master)
Spike cross (trap)
Snake (rope)
Boss/Dragon (aquamentus)
Boss/Dragon fireballs
Boss/Dinosaur (Dodongo)
Old man
Merchant
Flame
Environment – non-interactive
Floor tile
Room border
Map HUD elements
Enemy cloud appearance
Enemy death explosion








HUD
Map – room layout
Rupee and item counts,
a/b selected items
life heart
